# D&C 128:18

> I might have rendered a <u>plainer</u>[^a] translation to this, but it is sufficiently plain to suit my purpose as it stands. It is sufficient to know, in this case, that the earth will be smitten with a <u>curse</u>[^b] unless there is a welding <u>link</u>[^c] of some kind or other between the fathers and the <u>children</u>[^d], upon some subject or other—and behold what is that subject? It is the <u>baptism</u>[^e] for the dead. For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also; for it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of the <u>fulness</u>[^f] of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and glories should take place, and be revealed from the days of Adam even to the present time. And not only this, but those things which never have been revealed from the <u>foundation</u>[^g] of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise and prudent, shall be revealed unto <u>babes</u>[^h] and sucklings in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times.

[D&C 128:18](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/128.18?lang=eng#p18)


[^a]: [[D&C 2.1|D&C 2:2 (1–3)]][[D&C 2.2|]][[D&C 2.3|]]; [[Joseph Smith History 1.36|JS—H 1:39 (36–39)]][[Joseph Smith History 1.37|]][[Joseph Smith History 1.38|]][[Joseph Smith History 1.39|]].  
[^b]: [[Curse|TG Curse]].  
[^c]: [[Genealogy and Temple Work|TG Genealogy and Temple Work]].  
[^d]: [[Family, Children, Duties of|TG Family, Children, Duties of]].  
[^e]: [[1 Corinthians 15.29|1 Cor. 15:29]]; [[D&C 124.28|D&C 124:29 (28–29)]][[D&C 124.29|]]; [[D&C 127.6|127:6]].  
[^f]: [[D&C 138.53|D&C 138:53]].  
[^g]: [[D&C 35.18|D&C 35:18]].  
[^h]: [[Matthew 11.25|Matt. 11:25]]; [[Luke 10.21|Luke 10:21]]; [[Alma 32.23|Alma 32:23]].  
